PyUSB


%! Target : html

== About ==

PyUSB is a native [Python http://www.python.org] module written in C
which provides USB access for it.

PyUSB uses the [libusb http://libusb.sf.net] to do its work, so, any system
which has Python and  libusb should work for PyUSB.

== Status ==

PyUSB is stable for the libusb 0.1 branch. Major changes are comming when
libusb 1.0 be ready.

I was considering to use
[ctypes http://python.net/crew/theller/ctypes/], but because you have to
pay attention to the internal data structures of the libusb, I'm affraid that
use it can cause portability issues, then I'm not sure about use ctypes.

== Download ==

You can download PyUSB on the
[SourceForge http://sourceforge.net/projects/pyusb] or on the
[Berlios http://developer.berlios.de/projects/pyusb] host.

Mac OS users can download the fink package on
http://pdb.finkproject.org/pdb/search.php?summary=pyusb.

== Resources ==

PyUSB comes with two samples: usbenum, which shows how to enumerate
devices and usbprint, which wraps printer usb class.

[PlugUSB http://www.media.mit.edu/resenv/classes/MAS961/plug/PlugUSB.py]
is a very good example of PyUSB usage too.
[David Merril http://web.media.mit.edu/~dmerrill/] has written a very good
[tutorial http://web.media.mit.edu/~dmerrill/sensor_network_applications/plug_howto.html] about installing PyUSB on Windows.
(Thanks to [Josh Lifton http://web.media.mit.edu/~lifton/] and
[David Merril http://web.media.mit.edu/~dmerrill/] to permit link
their project).

[Pymissile  http://scott.weston.id.au/software/pymissile-20060126/] 
is another project that you can use as a good start point to use PyUSB.
It uses a modified version of PyUSB, but since the version 0.4, the patch
provided on the website shouldn't be needed. Thanks to
[Scott Weston http://scott.weston.id.au/] to allow me link his project.

Alexander Krause has a
[wiki http://wiki.erazor-zone.de/wiki:projects:python:pyusb] with some examples
and projects using PyUSB. It is a very good material for reference.
Thanks to Alexander. 

== Support ==

Now, PyUSB users have a
[mailing list http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_name=pyusb-users]. Please, before send me an email, try to send your question to the mailing
list. I still will be pleasured to answer your question if you send me an email
directly, but the mailing list is prefered.

My email is: [wander(dot)lairson(at)gmail(dot)com]
(sorry, but spam is a problem).
